Git workflow lessons+suggestions (#22320)
TheOdinProject/curriculum: foundations/javascript_basics/DOM-manipulation.md

### Practice

Manipulating web pages is the primary benefit of the JavaScript language! These techniques are things that you are likely to be messing with _every day_ as a front-end developer, so let's practice!

1. Do the first exercise in Wes Bos's JavaScript30 program by cloning the repo at [https://github.com/wesbos/JavaScript30](https://github.com/wesbos/JavaScript30). Check out the [Video Tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuN8qwZoego) for instructions on the project.

> 2. Before we proceed to the next step, we need to get familiar with a very popular git workflow. [Read this article](https://blog.scottlowe.org/2015/01/27/using-fork-branch-git-workflow/) for everything that you need to know for now.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Before we proceed to the next step, we need to get familiar with a very popular Git workflow. [Read this article](https://blog.scottlowe.org/2015/01/27/using-fork-branch-git-workflow/) for everything that you need to know for now.
```

>    1. The above article shows us how to use a "fork and branch" workflow to contribute to another user's repo. But since we'll be adding a new feature to our own repo, we don't need to make a fork or add a remote since we already have it set up. We can start with the 'Making a branch' step.

Reviewer: The formatting for the sub-bullets seems to start with `i, ii, iii`, etc, then switch to `1, 2, 3`, then back to `i, ii, iii` style notation. Let's standardize this. I think we use just numbers across the curriculum, even for numbered sub bullets.

Author: @twalton83 Not sure what you mean, I used numbers for sub bullets as well. Or are you saying I should use the alternating style?

Reviewer: Look at the markdown preview, you’ll see what I’m talking about.

Author: Oh, I see it now. Shall I make it like the below snippet? I added a space before the period. Otherwise it seems to appear as numerals.

1. A
2. B
   1 . a
   2 . b
   3 . c
   4 . d

>    2. Since we'll be making a UI for our Rock Paper Scissors game, make a new branch and switch to it with the command `git checkout -b rps-ui`

Reviewer: I think we need to make it clear that they should have navigated to their existing project via the command line.

>    3. You are now working in the 'rps-ui' branch, locally. However, this branch does not exist in your remote repo yet. (go to your github repo page and you'll see that you only have 1 branch, which would be 'main'). Let's push this new branch to your remote repo with the command `git push origin rps-ui`. (now, you'll see two branches in your github repo page!).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   3. You are now working in the 'rps-ui' branch, locally. However, this branch does not exist in your remote repo yet. If you go to your github repo page, you'll see that you only have 1 branch, which would be `main`. Let's push this new branch to your remote repo with the command `git push origin rps-ui`. Now, you'll see two branches in your Github repository!
```

   4. You can now make changes in this branch without worrying about your old code. It will be safe and untouched in the 'main' branch. You can think of the main branch as the 'production' branch, which will be the most tested, stable version of our code, and our 'rps-ui' branch as a 'development' branch where you're experimenting or trying to implement a new feature without messing up our stable production code. You can see how this process is very convenient for working on a new feature without fear.

> 3. Go back to your "Rock Paper Scissors" game from a previous lesson and give it a simple UI so that the player can play the game by clicking on buttons rather than typing their answer in a prompt.

Reviewer: I don't think this is necessary because it's implied that they should be working on the old RPS game and giving it a UI.

Author: You mean the last bullet (#3)? Or the entire thing

   2. For now, remove the logic that plays exactly five rounds.
   3. Create three buttons, one for each selection. Add an event listener to the buttons that calls your `playRound` function with the correct `playerSelection` every time a button is clicked. (you can keep the console.logs for this step)
   4. Add a `div` for displaying results and change all of your `console.log`s into DOM methods.
   5. Display the running score, and announce a winner of the game once one player reaches 5 points.
   6. You will likely have to refactor (rework/rewrite) your original code to make it work for this. That's OK! Reworking old code is an important part of the programmer's life.
   7. Once you're all done with your UI and make sure everything's satisfactory, it's time to merge our current branch 'rps-ui' to our main branch.
4. Now let's take a look at how we can merge these changes back to our 'main' branch.
   1. [Watch this short video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=S2TUommS3O0) to get an idea of what we'll be doing. You don't need to worry about merge conflicts for now, as this will be very unlikely when you're working on your own and not collaborating with a team of developers.

>    2. As mentioned in the video, let switch to the branch we want to merge INTO i.e. 'main' with the command `git checkout main`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   2. As mentioned in the video, let switch to the branch we want to merge INTO i.e. `main` with the command `git checkout main`
```

>    3. Now let's merge our 'rps-ui' branch into the branch we're currently in (main). `git merge rps-ui`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   3. Now let's merge our `rps-ui` branch into `main`, our current branch with `git merge rps-ui`.
```

>    4. If everything goes fine, our rps-ui branch is now successfully merged with main! Use `git log` and you'll see all the commits you've made to your rps branch on top of the commits you made to the main branch. Now for our final step!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   4. If everything goes fine, our `rps-ui` branch is now successfully merged with main! Use `git log` and you'll see all the commits you've made to your feature branch on top of the commits you made to the main branch. Now for our final step!
```

>    5. Let's push our main branch into our remote repo. `git push origin main` . Go to your github repo and you'll see that our main branch will have all the changes and commits you made to the 'rps-ui' branch. Congratulations! You've successfully pushed your first feature into your production branch!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   5. Let's push our `main` branch into our remote repo by running `git push origin main` . Go to your Github repo and you'll see that our `main` branch will have all the changes and commits you made to the `rps-ui` branch. Congratulations! You've successfully pushed your first feature into your production branch!
```

>    6. Now that we have all our code in the main branch, we don't really need our 'rps-ui' branch anymore. Let's do some cleanup, both locally and in the remote repo. Delete the branch from our local repo with `git branch -d rps-ui` and also delete it from the remote repo(you github repo) with `git push origin --delete rps-ui`. Congrats, we're all done with our cleanup!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   6. Now that we have all our code in the main branch, we don't really need our `rps-ui` branch anymore. Let's do some cleanup, both locally and in the remote repo. Delete the branch from our local repo with `git branch -d rps-ui` and also delete it from the remote repo on Github with `git push origin --delete rps-ui`. Congrats, we're all done with our cleanup!
```
